This setup guide includes directions for installing Eclipse and adding the Maven and SVN plugins and for checking out and running an example application.

===Install Eclipse===
Download Eclipse and install it.  Eclipse downloads: [[http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/technology/epp/downloads/release/indigo/SR2/eclipse-jee-indigo-SR2-win32.zip&url=http://www.gtlib.gatech.edu/pub/eclipse/technology/epp/downloads/release/indigo/SR2/eclipse-jee-indigo-SR2-win32.zip&mirror_id=337 32-bit]] [[http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/technology/epp/downloads/release/indigo/SR2/eclipse-jee-indigo-SR2-win32-x86_64.zip&url=http://mirrors.xmission.com/eclipse/technology/epp/downloads/release/indigo/SR2/eclipse-jee-indigo-SR2-win32-x86_64.zip&mirror_id=518 64-bit]]

===Install M2E Maven Plugin===
 # Open Eclipse
 # Go to Help->Install New Software...
 # Paste this URL into the field and click "Add":  http://download.eclipse.org/technology/m2e/releases/
 # Follow the directions and finish installing the plugin.
 # Restart Eclipse.

===Install SVN Plugin===
 # Open Eclipse
 # Go to Help->Install New Software...
 # Paste this URL into the field and click "Add":  http://subclipse.tigris.org/update_1.8.x
 # Restart Eclipse.

===Checkout Example Project and Run It===
 # Go to Window->Open Perspective->Other...
 # Select "SVN Repository Exploring"
 # You should now see the "SVN Repositories" sub-window on the left.
 # Right-click in the white area of the SVN Repositories view.
 # Select New->Repository Location
 # Enter the following as the URL:  http://struts2-conversation.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/examples
 # Expand the new repository directory.
 # You should see folders for each of the example projects.
 # Right click on one of the projects and select "Checkout..."
 # Select "Check out as a project in the workspace" and click "Finish".
 # Click on "Java" or "JEE" in the top right-hand corner of Eclipse to switch back to a Java perspective.
 # You should see the project that you just checkout out in the Package Explorer on the left.
 # Right click on the project and select Configure->Convert to Maven Project
 # When the conversion has finished, right click on the project again and select Run as->Maven Build
 # Type "jetty:run" in the "Goals" field and then click the "Run" button.
Go to this URL to use the app:  [http://localhost:8080/simple-example/registration/begin.action]

Go to this URL to browse the app configuration:  [http://localhost:8080/simple-example/conversation-config-browser/index.action]